well it's the second day of semifinals
here in Shanghai with covers presented
by mobile lytx I'm joined right now by
Holman who has you've seen him he's been
on camera for years and years and years
no one knows who he is so you're just
like a contract translator they bring in
here for international events right at
home in yeah I heard that a lot of times
but actually this is my fifth year
working at Wright Korea and it's
translating like my part-time job I only
need help out for translation during
international events and actually I
worked at write Korea at the eSports
team and I do player management and
League operations for lck okay so when
you say player management and legal
patience is for the people that don't
understand what does that actually
entail so put in easy words like player
management is just help me help me out
with between pro teams pro players and
riot so it's like a coordinator between
those two entities and the operations is
like in league operations there's like
format like policy like schedule
everything related Alice kilig I'm
involved in it okay and so that I I
think it's so funny because you're
that's like a lot of responsibility
you're involved in not just one but two
major areas and then they just shove you
in front of a camera and make you speak
English during the rest of worlds is a
hard to kind of tackle all this
different stuff well while I'm at
international tournaments I just try to
focus on this like translation job
because I think that since cream players
have been playing so well and it's porn
to convey this the exact correct message
to the players and since they have like
they're playing so many games and
they're winning so many games and
there's a lot of interviews going on not
even on stage but backstage with media
interviews and like those all that stuff
going on overall it's a really great
experience that I haven't had in the
past so how did you first off how did
you end up doing the translations the
first time and was it just sort of like
who here can speak both and wants to be
on camera or was it and also you know
did you expect that it would last this
many years did you
expect it to be you know go on for all
this time so actually your your half
correct like I think my first interview
was 2014 all-stars before that there
wasn't as many english-speaking like
writers at Kri office and since I was an
employer management I was more close to
the players and I had a better
relationship so they thought that maybe
I could provide a more comfortable
environment for the players to do an
interview and since I can speak somewhat
English my team managers offered me this
opportunity and I first thought I just
thought it could be somewhat a fun
experience to be on camera for the first
time I life and I was just thinking that
it would be a one-time thing but I don't
know how it happened but now I'm still
doing for it in like four years or so so
yeah that's how I first started doing
this job so when people see you with me
it's always in some back room somewhere
and there's no audience it's like me and
maybe a video producer here there's not
even a video producer but when
oftentimes when you are with Shox
you are oftentimes in front of like an
arena and millions of people watching
online is does that get to you or it did
it take a while Freddie comfortable with
it you still get nervous oh I still get
nervous all the times like actually when
it first started I wasn't that nervous
but after a couple interviews I started
getting message to my friends and from
people like that I've been touched for a
while and then I start realized oh like
a lot of people are actually watching
this and especially when I do interviews
like on stage and like when there's like
a semifinals or finals when there's a
huge arena and like bunch of like the
venues packed and there's like what like
ten thousand twenty thousand people in
the audience batson really gets to me
and I just tried to keep telling myself
let's just have fun let's have a fun
time talking with the player with shocks
but it never gets easier do you do you
have a following or because I know that
like in the West people obviously know
about you and they comment on red
threads about you or whatever but do the
Korean fans know who you are and do they
like message you do they feel I don't
even know if people follow you on Korean
social media or anything
well I don't do any Twitter stuff so I
don't get any like Derick following but
cloudtemplar he's a close friend of mine
and he mentioned me one student I think
it's 2015 worlds and after that after he
gave me a huge shout-out I did become
someone known to the Korean fans and I
had one written interview with invent so
after that people got to know about me a
lot more and as you first asked me in
this interview a lot of people just knew
me as a part time translator but after
my actual introduction a lot of fans got
to know me a lot more better and I do
get some messages from like Facebook or
like Instagram but not that many yeah do
you ever get criticized because I have
seen people be very very critical of
every translator you know like there's
that one person who's like a need of
Korean native Chinese out of whatever
and they're like actually he translated
it wrong it doesn't mean he likes the
color red it means he's okay with the
color red or something I mean do you
ever get that stuff I can't even list
this long list I can't even start on it
but actually I stopped looking at those
comments ever since like I think so
start from 2016 like when I first
started to being at 2014 I was really i
obsessed with finding all those comments
but I relate to me and try to get those
feedbacks but then I just realized at
some point that they're not always that
healthy to me and of course like I
understand that I'm not a professional
translator so I do make a lot of
mistakes and but I just tried to get the
core message and get it out to the
players and I just hope that they show
some mercy on me well that's that's a
fair point because one of the things
that I often know is because you know
riot I know they're always looking for
more people who can translate because
any time the media room starts going
it's like we need translators we need
translators you're frantically running
from one interview to the next but it's
actually really hard because there at
the amount of people who can who you can
trust enough to hire and also are
competent up in the language and also
know League of Legends language right
because that's a bit of the problem too
is that there it's like a whole
different link
when it comes to league of legends terms
correct yes so like when I was first
picked to do the translator also my
understanding of the legend was one of
those core parts that might manage it I
want me to because at that time I think
I was like high plat in Korea and I just
played a lot of the legends and I talked
to the pro players a lot and I tried to
at least match some at some level their
understanding and it's still like even
for my first interview at this year at
Worlds I didn't know what the English
term for artists answer was and I was
English interview with Shox and I said
Crescent Arden or something and she was
like what are you doing and and you've
had all these interesting interviews and
sometimes they are very normal you know
people just ask like hey you lost that
game why do you think you lost sir
congratulations what you know who do you
want your next opponent other times
you've got like wolf flirting with
shocks on stage and you have to
translate that so what is it what is it
like whatever that stuff gets more zany
and are there any moments that actually
stand out to you or any particular
interviews where people are you know you
have to translate weird well
overall I think all the players that are
really great all the pro players they're
really like great personality awesome
people but there are some particularly
hard interviewers I'd say a first person
to call my head is imp definitely okay
I'm always I don't think he's quite sure
what he's trying to say even himself
okay he just keeps going on and on and
on I'm just listening to him like when
we stop and then Oh for some really good
friends so no offense to him but it's
really fun to work with him and like
wolf and like those other players like I
just try to talk to the players a lot
yeah at the backstage and see like if
they have any if they wanted any
interviews and if they want to if there
are any topics they want to say and like
but for like for example for wolf
actually he wasn't one of the first
priority prioritize players to do an
interview it was always faker like I bet
I'm Mar in and like other players but
one day when I was talking to wolf and
Wolf was like hey I want to do intro of
the shocks I really like her I don't
take a selfie with her I'm like
that's great and I talked to Shox and we
talked to our broadcast creator and it
worked out and I think that's what's
really important to have that connection
going on with players and not just have
a very like strict formal interview but
let's show actually what type of player
that that he is and show that
personality to the players are kind of
wrapping this up I do think one thing is
very funny and we kind of made jokes
about this is that often times at Worlds
you know I see like the other foreign
language translators start to drop off
you know they head home after groups or
corridors or semifinals oh man you will
have to sticker out every year at finals
you know no matter what - if it's FSI if
it's worlds what is it like for you you
know being the guy with the Korean teams
who you know lck is already sweeping the
stuff so what what is it like for you to
sort of see this year after your a
tournament after tournament to be honest
I have very mixed feelings towards LCQ
teams like of course as a fellow Korean
I always like deep in my heart I root
for the Korean teams and I want them to
perform better and to keep winning
international tournaments but also on
the other hand as a rider I would like
to see a more diverse league and more
more diverse competition so but I do
have a dream that one day I won't be
neat at the finals I can just in the
audience and enjoy the game I would that
would be nice I think for a lot a lot of
people but either way you're around and
once more you've made it to the finals
congratulations so that's you know
that's kind of the cool thing right is
that you you home and always make it to
the finals right like this that's a nice
thing I don't know if you ever get to
lift the summoner's Cup but at some
point in time right maybe is there
anything that you would like to say
anything that we didn't cover that the
you would like the Western fans to know
or anything about your silver just
anything you want to say to these guys
well it's why say thanks to everybody
who showed their support for me for
those past interviews that really gave
me a lot of strength and to those who
have not enjoyed my translation just
want to say that I will keep trying my
best to translate work toward and to not
make any mistakes but
please just enjoy the journey with me
and hopefully I'll have more
opportunities to talk to you guys in the
meantime maybe you can help come up with
even cooler names for items like
Crescent Arden you know all sorts of
cool stuff thank you so much Olin for
the interview for everyone else you can
check out the rest of my coverage of all
things eSports right here on my youtube
channel oh hello I didn't see you there
I actually just got back to the hotel
after going to the venue for some
interviews and I'm actually just
checking out the new mobile it exported
site that's right you've heard me talk
to you about how they help you figure
out your strengths and weaknesses but
they've just launched this new thing for
worlds there's so much functionality let
me tell you about it
it's got schedules for the games and I
know a lot of you hate spoilers there's
actually a spoiler tag that changes the
functionality of the site to hide
results etc so that's what you're
interested in you've got that there are
pregame analytics and analysis for
matches before they even start there are
post game breakdowns builds and more
advanced sense including analytics using
mobile it's specific formula there's
even a section dedicated to champions
themselves in fact you can search
specifically for your favorite player
track their games view heat maps read
through their champions and see more and
finally by the way if watching these
videos is too taxing mobile decks
actually has transcribed many of my
world interviews for your reading
pleasure so be sure to check it out it's
got all sorts of cool stuff on it
explore the site its eSports time
obliques dot GG and by the way thanks
for watching this video you can actually
sign up for their service if you want to
get better at League Legends over at
mobile xdd slash Travis